CWE:
Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) list identifies software security weaknesses in software and hardware. This includes C, C++, and Java.

The list is compiled by feedback from the CWE Community.

The community is made up of representatives from major operating systems vendors, commercial information security tool vendors, academia, government agencies, and research institutions.

The full list is regularly updated every few months with the latest version released in August 2020.

The security weakness list includes over 600 categories, which include:

Buffer overflow
Cross-site scripting
Insecure random numbers






OWASP Top 10:
OWASP is the Open Web Application Security Project.

OWASP is an international nonprofit organization that educates software development teams on how to conceive, develop, acquire, operate, and maintain secure applications.

The OWASP Top 10 is the most well-known resource that the organization produces. Each year, a team of security experts from across the globe updates the report. This report features the 10 most critical web application and API security risks.

The current list includes:

Injection
Broken Authentication
Sensitive Data Exposure
XML External Entities (XXE)
Broken Access Control
Security Misconfiguration
Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)
Insecure Deserialization
Using Components With Known Vulnerabilities
Insufficient Logging and Monitoring
OWASP is important as it provides the following benefits:

It helps developers safeguard against cybersecurity vulnerabilities.
It helps strengthen software encryption.
It helps reduce the number of security errors, bugs, and defects in the code.




CERT:
CERT is a secure coding standard that supports commonly used programming languages such as C, C++, and Java.
Each guideline included in the secure coding standard, there is a risk assessment to help determine the possible consequences of violating that specific rule or recommendation.
The aim of the secure coding standard is to not only detect security risks with rules but also provide suggestions that can improve code quality with recommendations.
The scope of the secure coding standard is a whole program coding standard and the goal is to produce safe, reliable, and secure systems.
Whenever using the secure coding standard, you are able to ensure that your software is secure and safeguarded from potential vulnerabilities.



SANS 25
SANS Top 25 is a list of the Common Weakness Enumeration's (CWE) most dangerous software errors.
These are errors that can result in severe vulnerabilities that can allow attackers to steal data, completely take over applications, or prevent them from working completely.
The SANS application security curriculum seeks to ingrain security into the minds of every developer in the world by providing world-class educational resources to design, develop, procure, deploy, and manage secure software.
SANS maintains an Application Security CyberTalent Assessment that measures secure coding skills and allow programmers to determine gaps in their knowledge of secure coding and allows buyers to ensure outsourced programmers have sufficient programming skills.
CWE/SANS top 25 vulnerabilities include porous defenses, insecure component interactions, as well as high-risk resource management. These three categories highlight the more extrinsic weaknesses of these vulnerabilities.
Porous defenses
Insecure component interactions
High-risk resource vulnerabilities